In this section, we'll be discussing the many uses of advanced table filters.
Before we get started,
let's make sure to distinguish between table filters and view filters.
View filters are configured in the view by an editor and are applied at processing time.
Typical view filters are configured to exclude
internal IP addresses and to lowercase dimensions such as page,
campaign dimensions and event dimensions.
We'll be diving into view filters later in this course.
In this section, we'll be focusing on dynamically applied table filters.
Let's first consider a basic filter that applies to the primary dimension in a report.
We're back on the landing pages report of the Google merchandise store account.
If we wanted to filter all landing pages that contain a pay roll as an example,
all we would need to do would be to apply a basic filter.
So, we see that this basic filter field has filtered the report by the primary dimension.
Let's now again apply source medium as a secondary dimension to our landing pages report.
First, we'll just get rid of the current filter,
source medium and we see in row nine Google CPC as one of the source medium values.
Let's say that we now wanted to filter this report by source medium containing CPC.
If we enter CPC into the basic filter field,
the report zeros out.
This is because the basic filter only applies to the primary dimension.
In this case, we're trying to apply the filter to the secondary dimension.
So, we're going to need to use an advanced filter.
Advanced table filters provide a lot of
additional functionality beyond basic table filters.
We can still filter by primary dimension in an advanced table filter,
but importantly we can also filter by secondary dimension.
We'll also see that we can use different match types exact, starts ends, contains.
We'll also be able to filter the report by metrics.
We'll be able to apply multiple conditions and
we'll also be able to use an exclude table filter.
Lets ask out this basic table filter for now.
Click into advanced.
Now we see we have the choice of either dimension that appears in the table.
We'll select source medium, containing CPC, apply.
Now, we've successfully filtered by source medium with the value containing CPC.
Let's remove this filter for now.
Let's see how we could filter the report by metric.
Click back into advanced.
Let's say, include bounce rate greater than 50 percent, apply.
Now we see that we've filtered our table by a specific threshold for bounce rate.
If we wanted to add multiple conditions to the filter we could do that as well.
If we edit the current filter, we'll say,
landing page containing accessories.
Now, we're filtering by landing page containing accessories
and also the bounce rate threshold of higher than 50 percent.
Let's remove this filter for now.
Let's apply an exclude filter.
Let's take a little preview right now of the comparison display.
As the comparison metric,
let's select e-commerce conversion rate.
E-commerce conversion rate in the landing pages report
represents the conversion rate for sessions that began on these landing pages.
We see that there's some pages that may be skewing this report.
We see for instance,
that basket that HTML is showing
a 625 percent higher than average e-commerce conversion rate.
If we want to exclude this page as an outlier and recalibrate the comparison display,
we can use an advanced table filter.
We'll say exclude landing page,
exactly matching, basket that HTML.
Now, the comparison has been recalculated with basket that HTML excluded.